Contributing guide (#71)
best-practice-and-impact/ons-spark: CONTRIBUTING.md

5. Commit your changes and push your branch to GitHub.
6. Submit a pull request through the GitHub website.

## Environment Set-up

> This repository is built using a specific set of dependencies and both Python and R programming languages. To be able to appropriately modify the Jupyter Notebooks and convert them into markdown files (such that code tabs can be displayed to show demo code of both Python and R) and as a result an environment to have a full capability needs both Python and R. A list of environment requirements is below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository is built using a relatively complex set of dependencies, including both Python and R programming languages and Spark. A list of environment requirements is below:
```

- Python >= 3.6 
- R >=3.5,<4
- git

> - Java Development Kit (to be able to run Spark sessions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Java Development Kit (for Spark) >=1.8.0_121
```

> - PySpark 3.2.3 (on Apache Spark 2.4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- PySpark >= 2.4.0
```

> - Sparklyr 1.8.0 (on Apache Spark 2.4)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- sparklyr >= 1.7.5
```

other versions of Spark 2 may be compatible but have not been tested. 

## Building the Book

As mentioned in the README in the root of this repo. To build this book you'll need python installed. Once Python installed, then install its Python dependencies like so:

```bash 
git clone https://github.com/best-practice-and-impact/ons-spark.git
cd ons-spark 
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Now all the appropriate dependencies should be installed we can now build the book locally. This is done by running the following command within the root of the repository. 

```bash
jb build ons-spark
```

## Contributing to Notebooks to contain both Python and R code

> The conversion of notebook files into markdown files that have code tabs to display both Python and R code requires the use of some of the functionality contained in the utilities file of this repo. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The conversion of notebook files into markdown files that have code tabs to display both Python and R code requires the use of some of the functionality contained in the utilities folder of this repo. 
```

> The conversion of notebook files into markdown files that have code tabs to display both Python and R code requires the use of some of the functionality contained in the utilities file of this repo. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The conversion of notebook files into markdown files that have code tabs to display both Python and R code requires the use of some of the functionality contained in the utilities folder of this repo. 
```

> `notebook_converter.py` contains the function markdown_from_notebook that (as the name suggests) will convert a Jupyter Notebook into a Markdown file with appropriate code tabs, extract and run the R code, store both python and R outputs and put them in appropriate tabs in the notebook. This function takes as an argument the notebook that is to be converted and the output location of where you would like the resulting markdown file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`notebook_converter.py` contains the function markdown_from_notebook that (as the name suggests) will:

- convert a Jupyter Notebook into a Markdown file with appropriate code tabs
- extract and run the R code
- store both python and R outputs and put them in appropriate tabs in the notebook. 

This function takes as an argument the notebook that is to be converted and the output location of where you would like the resulting markdown file. 

```

N.B. it is not neccessary to convert ALL notebooks, only ones that you would like to show code examples of both Python and R code. For example notebooks in the PySpark specific section (i.e. not relevant to Sparklyr and therefore not containing any R code) can remain as notebooks and JupyterBook will include them in the book without any issue. 

> However, pages that contain code examples from both languages will be native Jupyter notebooks that have been converted using the convert in the utilities folder of this repo. An as a result the notebooks must be correctly formatted in order for the converter to work correctly. For any code that you wish to include in both languages, place the Python code in a code cell in the notebook as normal. Place the R code in a markdown cell directly below the Python code cell contained between `` ```r and ``` ``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pages that contain code examples in both Python and R have been converted using the above mentioned function in the utilities folder of this repo. And as a result the notebooks must be correctly formatted in order for the converter to work correctly. For any code that you wish to include in both languages, place the Python code in a code cell in the notebook as normal. Place the R code in a markdown cell directly below the Python code cell contained between `` ```r and ``` ``.  The notebook converter function uses these symbols as a marker to produce the R code tabs and R output tabs.
```

In the case that you are adding R code to a page in the book that is currently a Jupyter Notebook you will need to change the table of contents to point to the markdown file created by the conversion. To do this, inside the ons-spark folder modify the ```_toc.yml``` file such that the newly modified markdown file is included correctly. To learn a little more about Table of Contents in JupyterBooks see the Jupyter documentation [here](https://jupyterbook.org/en/stable/structure/toc.html). 

## Publishing changes

Internal contributors can trigger a new release of the book.

### Preparation

To create a new release and publish the `main` branch, you will need to install the dependencies:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Releasing

To create a new release, use the command line tool `bump2version`, which will be installed with the dev dependencies.
The version number references the current `year` and an incremental `build` count.

For a the first release of a year, provide the `year` as the command argument, otherwise provide `build`.

```
bump2version build
```

`bumpversion` will create a new Git `tag` and `commit`.

> If you're happy with the version increase, `push` these to the remote to trigger the publication, by running both:

Reviewer: just to check - do we need to run both of these one after the other? Or are they options?

Author: you have to run both. the line above says to trigger publication, run both.
